feat: unflag responsive images (#13917)
withastro/astro: .changeset/khaki-cloths-repair.md

---
'astro': minor
---

> Introduces a `priority` attribute for the `Image` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds a new `priority` attribute for Astro's image components.
```
We'll always go with simpler English when we can! (And yes, "adds" and "new" are redundant together, but for reaching the brain of skimmers, it's sometimes helpful, so it's an option!)

Also, if we're not saying `<Image />` and `<Picture />`, then do you think it's ok to lower case refer generically to them both as "Astro's image components"? We don't have a good generic phrase that we've settled on yet.

> By default, the Astro [`<Image />` component](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/images/#display-optimized-images-with-the-image--component) generates `<img>` tags that lazy-load their content by setting `loading="lazy"` and `decoding="async"`. This improves performance by deferring the loading of images that are not immediately visible in the viewport, and gives the best scores in performance audits like Lighthouse. However, for the main, above-the-fold images, you should tell the browser to load them immediately. Currently you can do this by setting the `loading` attribute to `"eager"` and `decoding` to `"sync"` on the `<img>` tag, but this is a bit cumbersome. It also does not currently set the `fetchpriority` attribute, which is a new HTML attribute that allows you to specify the priority of resource fetching.
> 
> This change introduces a new `priority` option for the `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components, which automatically sets the `loading`, `decoding`, and `fetchpriority` attributes to their optimal values for above-the-fold images. It is a boolean prop, and you can use the shorthand syntax by simply adding `priority` as a prop to the `<Image />` or `<Picture />` component. When set, it will apply the following attributes:
> 
> - `loading="eager"`
> - `decoding="sync"`
> - `fetchpriority="high"`
> 
> The individual attributes can still be set manually if you need to customize them further.
> 
> This option was previously available for experimental responsive images, but now it is a standard feature for all images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change introduces a new `priority` option for the `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components, which automatically sets the `loading`, `decoding`, and `fetchpriority` attributes to their optimal values for above-the-fold images which should be loaded immediately, even at the expense of performance.

It is a boolean prop, and you can use the shorthand syntax by simply adding `priority` as a prop to the `<Image />` or `<Picture />` component. When set, it will apply the following attributes:

- `loading="eager"`
- `decoding="sync"`
- `fetchpriority="high"`

The individual attributes can still be set manually if you need to customize your images further.

By default, the Astro [`<Image />` component](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/images/#display-optimized-images-with-the-image--component) generates `<img>` tags that lazy-load their content by setting `loading="lazy"` and `decoding="async"`. This improves performance by deferring the loading of images that are not immediately visible in the viewport, and gives the best scores in performance audits like Lighthouse. 

The new `priority` attribute will override those defaults and automatically add the best settings for your high-priority assets.

This option was previously available for experimental responsive images, but now it is a standard feature for all images.
```
So, *slight* preference here in the *changelog* for maybe for describing the feature upfront something like this? I think what you wrote originally is perfect for the blog post! I think maybe here we can optimize for describing the feature, then backfilling the story? What do you think?

```

> [!Note]

> > You should only use the `priority` option for images that are critical to the initial rendering of the page, and ideally only one image per page. This is often an image identified as the [LCP element](https://web.dev/articles/lcp) when running Lighthouse tests. Using it for too many images will lead to performance issues, as it forces the browser to load those images immediately, potentially blocking the rendering of other content.

Reviewer: Excellent note!
